README.md, before:

# ases_hours_logger

**Python Selenium-Based Hour Logger for ASES**

## Description

This tool is designed to streamline the process of booking work hours for employees using the [ASES tool from ATOSS](https://www.atoss.com/en). It is optimized for websites in German.

![demo-gif](assets/demo.gif)

### Key Features

- **Time-Saving Automation:** The tool automates the process of logging hours, aiming to save employees valuable time.
- **Intelligent Booking:** It excludes vacation days and weekends from the booking process, ensuring hours are only logged on available workdays.
- **Error Prevention:** The script avoids duplicating entries on days that have already been booked, minimizing errors in the logging process.

### Usage Instructions

Run the script, taking note of the following considerations:
   - **Language Assumption:** The tool assumes the website language is German. Adjust if necessary.
   - **Post-Script Verification:** After running the script, it is essential for the employee to verify the accuracy of the logged hours, make any necessary adjustments, and **manually click on the SAVE button** (or activate the `AUTOSAVE` setting at your own risk).

By leveraging this tool, employees can enhance efficiency in the hours booking process while maintaining control over the final submission. Feel free to customize settings and provide feedback for further improvements.

## Setup

To run the script, follow these steps:

1. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Create your settings file as `settings.json`. You can use `settings.json.example` as a template. Adjust the following setting parameters:

    | Key  | Description | Default |
    |------|-------------|---------|
    | `ASES_URL` | The URL to access the ASES webpage of your employer | `your_ases_url` |
    | `LOGIN_DROP_DOWN_INDEX` | Index of the item to be selected in the login page drop down menu | `5` |
    | `AUTOSAVE` | For automatically saving your changes after the script run set this to `true`. Do this at your own risk | `false` |
    | `TIME_SLOTS` | Define the time slots you want to log. These assume an 8-hour shift with a 1-hour lunch break each day. On Fridays only 7 hours are booked. You can adjust this at will | see `settings.json.example` file |
    | `BUFFER_TIME` | The time in seconds that passes between each browser action. We need a bit of time between actions for performance reasons. Only adjust if needed, for example, if your internet connection is slow | `0.3` |
    | `FINAL_WAIT_IN_SEC` | The time in seconds that the browser window will remain open after completing all booking actions | `60` |

3. Connect to your employers VPN if necessary.

4. Run the script:

    ```bash
    python3 hour_logger.py "ASES_USERNAME" "ASES_PASSWORD"
    ```

5. See the magic happen 🧙.

6. Ensure everything was logged correctly and **manually click on the "SAVE" button** (or activate the `AUTOSAVE` setting at your own risk).

Feel free to customize the settings to match your specific needs. If you encounter any issues, consider adjusting the waiting times or reaching out for support. Happy logging!

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/jdmbg' target='_blank'><img height='35' style='border:0px;height:46px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' />

Commit message:

added verbose log for developer mode to reduce the output of additional messages on the console

README.md, after:

# ases_hours_logger

**Python Selenium-Based Hour Logger for ASES**

## Description

This tool is designed to streamline the process of booking work hours for employees using the [ASES tool from ATOSS](https://www.atoss.com/en). It is optimized for websites in German.

![demo-gif](assets/demo.gif)

### Key Features

- **Time-Saving Automation:** The tool automates the process of logging hours, aiming to save employees valuable time.
- **Intelligent Booking:** It excludes vacation days and weekends from the booking process, ensuring hours are only logged on available workdays.
- **Error Prevention:** The script avoids duplicating entries on days that have already been booked, minimizing errors in the logging process.

### Usage Instructions

Run the script, taking note of the following considerations:
   - **Language Assumption:** The tool assumes the website language is German. Adjust if necessary.
   - **Post-Script Verification:** After running the script, it is essential for the employee to verify the accuracy of the logged hours, make any necessary adjustments, and **manually click on the SAVE button** (or activate the `AUTOSAVE` setting at your own risk).

By leveraging this tool, employees can enhance efficiency in the hours booking process while maintaining control over the final submission. Feel free to customize settings and provide feedback for further improvements.

## Setup

To run the script, follow these steps:

1. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Create your settings file as `settings.json`. You can use `settings.json.example` as a template. Adjust the following setting parameters:

    | Key  | Description | Default |
    |------|-------------|---------|
    | `ASES_URL` | The URL to access the ASES webpage of your employer | `your_ases_url` |
    | `LOGIN_DROP_DOWN_INDEX` | Index of the item to be selected in the login page drop down menu | `5` |
    | `AUTOSAVE` | For automatically saving your changes after the script run set this to `true`. Do this at your own risk | `false` |
    | `TIME_SLOTS` | Define the time slots you want to log. These assume an 8-hour shift with a 1-hour lunch break each day. On Fridays only 7 hours are booked. You can adjust this at will | see `settings.json.example` file |
    | `BUFFER_TIME` | The time in seconds that passes between each browser action. We need a bit of time between actions for performance reasons. Only adjust if needed, for example, if your internet connection is slow | `0.3` |
    | `FINAL_WAIT_IN_SEC` | The time in seconds that the browser window will remain open after completing all booking actions | `60` |
    | `VERBOSE` | output of log messages for the developer mode to display more information during processing | `true` |

3. Connect to your employers VPN if necessary.

4. Run the script:

    ```bash
    python3 hour_logger.py "ASES_USERNAME" "ASES_PASSWORD"
    ```

5. See the magic happen 🧙.

6. Ensure everything was logged correctly and **manually click on the "SAVE" button** (or activate the `AUTOSAVE` setting at your own risk).

Feel free to customize the settings to match your specific needs. If you encounter any issues, consider adjusting the waiting times or reaching out for support. Happy logging!

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/jdmbg' target='_blank'><img height='35' style='border:0px;height:46px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' />
